the way that i was first introduced to
a actual organization of black power
which i wanted to join
was alexander palace where there was a
large conference of all the radical
organizations
of asians and blacks
althea jones to us black people
she spoke very eloquently and she said
she was from the black
panther movement alfie jones laquante
came to england from trinidad to study
biochemistry at university college
london
she was a fierce opponent of
state-sponsored racism
in britain's former colonies and soon
became leader of the black panther
movement
the camera is there to protect and to
help and to show
this is up here harvey is one of the
most striking
strong determined young women in spite
of protests from large sections of the
british population
your government is prepared to continue
supporting the racism and repression
that the south african regime represents
our brothers and sisters in the
townships in south africa our brothers
and sisters who are fighting right now
in zimbabwe
are taking these words i became a member
of the black panther movement as a
consequence
of hearing althea laquan jones the
leader of the black panthers in
brookston
speak she was bright she was articulate
and i decided i wanted to go to meetings
to to find out more about this
black panther movement this is what the
sister is getting at
our generation can't tolerate schools
that only prepare us
it was in southeast london the
organization was called black unity and
freedom party
there were predominantly young men and
at the meeting we had a speaker
it was like an awakening and i was just
went back
all full of excitement about what i had
heard and seen
and invited my school friends to come
with me the following week
there were lots of us it was a young
movement a young movement of young men
and women
there were the facimbus there was the
black liberation front
black panthers i came to join the black
unity and freedom party
because i was ready to join a movement
we need more black symbols
march 1970 i joined the black power
organization of the simba's
i walked into the room and i saw a sea
of black faces the first time
i'd experienced that
i was overwhelmed the best armor we have
against the prejudice
listen to the speaker speak said we've
been exploited for
centuries now time for us to unite he
said black power
black power black power yeah yeah
i felt the hairs in the back of my neck
stand up i found something i could
belong to something i'd believe in
it was black people standing up for the
first time
in a way that was extremely militant it
wasn't begging it wasn't trying to show
we were equal
it was saying we know we're equal and
we're not putting up with it that's the
attraction for all of us
we were all part of a huge movement of
belief
we were just part of a bigger black
movement and wanted to you know
do what we had to do demonstrate demand